# Running a Program

**Source Code**: Human readable code. Now this source code can either be 'interpreted' or 'compiled'

**Machine Code**: The code understood by the hardware, i.e. series of 0's and 1's.

**Interpreter**: Directly _executes_ the code. It reads the code statement-by-statement from the input, converts it to an intermediate code, and then executes it.

**Compiler**: Reads the source code at once (with multiple passes), creats tokens, checks semantics, generates an object files. Compilers (gcc in unix) either directly generate an object file or first convert the source code to an assemby code and then it is converted to machine code by an assembler ('as' in unix). Compiler checks for the scope.

**Assembler**: Converts the assembly code to machine code.

**Scope**: Declaration and usage connection.

**Linkage**: Linkage tells how an identifier can or cannot refer to the same entity across multiple files/functions.

**Transalation Unit**: A file containing the source code, header files, and other dependencies. 

**Linker**: Takes in object files and performs linking, i.e. resolving the symbols (like + operator etc.) and arranging objects in program's address space after its successful compilation. It creats an file with _.elf_ extension or no extension at all. Compiler checks for the correctness of the variable declaration. Linker finds the declaration and resolves the value of the identifier. 
          1. static linking- result of linker copying all the library routines used in program into executable image. More disk space.
          2. dynamic linking- actual linking done at runtime. Standard system libraries need to be stored in only one location. Less memory.

obj file has: | obj header | text segment | data segment | RELOCATION INFORMATION | Symbol Table | 

                                                                    |                    |
                                                                    |                    |
                                                            tells us to find STL    <defined or
                                                            info somehwere else     referred 
                                                                                    symbols, 
                                                                                    address> + for debugging

**Executable**: Final correct object file generated by using the .elf file. It has the machine code + metadata to assist the OS in locating program's dependencies + static data embedded within.
